---
title: Digital people, in the end is a lucrative business or a sickle on the wind?
date: 2023-07-20 20:50:26
categories:
  - Technology
tags:
  - Digital People
  - Virtualisation
description: This year, a series of AI anchors scrambled "on the job", virtual digital human project is a blowout trend. Digital people, in the end is to cut leek business, or the real trend?
cover: https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/youngjuning/images@main/1695255083483.png
---

This year, a series of AI anchors scrambled "on the job", virtual digital human project is a blowout trend. Digital people, in the end is to cut leek business, or the real trend?

## Digital people in the end why

The first thing to understand is what is considered a digital person.

Tencent released "Digital People Industry Report", which defines digital people as "virtual characters that exist in digital space in digital form, with anthropomorphic or real human appearance, behavior and characteristics."

At present, from the appearance of the identification, the common digital person has two categories: a 2D real-life digital person, the main function of this type of digital person is to carry out oral broadcasting. First of all, the image and voice of the real person are collected, and the digital person image is created 1:1 through lip-driven, action-driven and other related algorithms. At present, the short video platform most often appear anchor with goods digital person is born from this.

Another type of digital person is the 3D virtual digital person, which often appears in the image of animated characters and is suitable for the creation of virtual IP. For this type of digital person, from the facial contours to clothing scenes need to be customized to create, the cost is usually higher, the production cycle will be longer. "If a 2D virtual person can be used for three to five thousand, a complete set of our 3D virtual person needs to be much more expensive." Xu Shaohua, CEO of Beijing Metavance Technology Co. Ltd, gave an example to One View Business.

In addition to the shape, the digital human drive can also be divided into the middle of the human-driven and AI technology-driven. AI-driven digital human, refers to the use of machine learning, feeding data and other ways to train the digital human to complete a specific task. This type of digital person is good at doing service-oriented work with high repetition, and most of the 2D real-life digital people currently carrying goods on the air belong to this category. Nakanoto drive is to rely on human power to drive the virtual host to live, "Nakanoto" from the Japanese "Nakanoto", refers to the manipulation of the virtual host to live people. This kind of drive requires a lot of filming and post-production work, the cost is high, many 3D virtual human is used in the Nakanoto drive.

Engaged in film visual effects work for more than ten years, at the end of 2019, with a curious attitude, Xu Shaohua tried to analyze a virtual anchor named Michael in the United States at the technical level, and since then embarked on the road of researching 3D digital people. In his opinion, 2D real-life digital people and 3D digital people are two completely different concepts. In addition to the huge difference in cost, compared with the 2D digital person with goods "tool" attribute, 3D virtual digital person has more IP possibilities.

Now on the market, there are already some Netflix-level 3D digital people. Virtual beauty expert Liu Night Xi, in Shake Sound already has 8.372 million fans, a short video with the highest number of likes up to 3.666 million. Ultra-realistic virtual KOL plume, has become the Tmall luxury "double 11" digital recommendation officer, but also participated in the Bulgari Magni-Fashion theme blockbuster shooting. "Not only can effectively avoid the risk of "spokesman collapse", but also has a series of IP cases," Xu Shaohua said, more governments and enterprises are willing to invest in this, to create their own exclusive IP digital person.

However, even if the advantages of 3D digital people clear, for a significant portion of small and medium-sized businesses, 2D digital people is its first choice.

This is because, compared with the 2D digital human 3D digital human cost threshold is higher, and small and medium-sized businesses on the virtual human expectations have not yet reached the IP this step, considering only the simple needs of cost reduction and efficiency. And it is also because of the term "cost reduction and efficiency", many small and medium-sized businesses have become the first wave of digital people cut "leek".

## Various cooperation modes

Judge whether the merchant can use digital people to earn money, from the digital people to judge the mode of cooperation. A number of digital people service providers to One View Business summarizes the market at this stage of several types of digital people cooperation mode.

First of all, it is customized digital person package and selling for cash. Whether it is 2D or 3D digital person, customized digital person package is a must option. Digital people industry practitioners swim fish to One View Business showed the company's 2D digital people package in Alibaba international station. The use of a system costs 29,800 yuan, including an image clone, a sound clone, an image and sound acquisition, and provides 30 shared digital person images, 100 tones, and support for 7 * 24 hours of live broadcasting.

Secondly, in addition to selling digital people, some companies will also sell the hardware. A one-time buyout of hardware and software is conducive to reducing operation and maintenance costs. Generally speaking, the buyout system of digital people, if you need to change the scene and costumes at a later stage still need to pay additional fees. At the level of live hours and technical updates, there is no charge.

Finally, leasing and co-creation is a more low-cost way of cooperation. For some of the live frequency in the weekly or even monthly business, more willing to choose the form of leasing the use of digital people. However, even in the case of leasing, the business needs to buy out the assets of the digital person in order to obtain the image copyright, which is only a lease at the level of hardware equipment.

Co-creation refers to the enterprise and the digital person service provider to hold the IP together, the enterprise with low cost from the digital person service provider here to get the digital person, in the process of carrying goods live, in the form of a commission back to the service provider. As for the amount of the drawback, it is defined according to the enterprise's previous live broadcast data, and the drawback percentage will be relatively low for enterprises with a large volume of their own bandwagon. "We will estimate the cost to be invested, and through the enterprise's previous data to expect the approximate flow of water, and then we will consider how long a range to recover the cost to confirm the percentage of the drawback in the flow of water, which is a process of measurement," Xu Shaohua explained.

Different from the live band digital person, the virtual idol type digital person to get the live room reward is the digital person service providers direct profit channel, because of this, some do 3D digital person service providers will choose to cultivate more than one digital person, in the short video platform to do the plot to the content account.

## Existing industry problems

Digital human service providers to provide so many cooperation modes, why is there still a large number of businesses are "cut leek"?

1, the follow-up operation and maintenance of the enterprise is a bottomless pit.

For many enterprises, the purchase of 3D digital people, is based on the expectation that it can be successfully IP and realize cash for the enterprise and cooperation. From the cooperation model, we can see that, in addition to some of the more mature digital human service providers only have the co-creation of the form of cooperation, many digital human business is still a one-shot deal. However, incubation of an IP is an extremely long process, long-term operation and maintenance of inputs need to consume a lot of manpower and material resources of enterprises, the later operation and maintenance is not in place, the digital person to become a business "rotten" project is a common phenomenon.

2, there are many service providers who sell digital people on the end of the matter.

In May of this year, Jitterbug issued an AI marking order to start regulating the new species of digital people. There is no competitiveness in content, only repeat the oral broadcast of a large number of 2D digital people were banned, many merchants before the foot of the huge amount of money to buy digital people to open the goods live, after the foot of the live room was banned or limited flow, not to mention the business expectations of the "reduction of costs and efficiency", the digital people have become a loss-making business. Although many service providers will only sell digital people at the same time to give a "can avoid the risk of sealing the proposal program", but can not fundamentally solve the problem, the service provider's money has been earned, the businessman naturally became a "leek".

Previously, "Leopard Change" has reported that the current digital human agency market is relatively chaotic, and some use a similar micro-agent model. First-class agents first from the R & D company to do intelligent interaction to get lower discounts, and during the period do not even need to pay money first, you can recruit lower-level agents. Overall, this agent mode is relatively chaotic, difficult to do a good job of regional protection, lower-level agents, the rights and interests of merchants are difficult to be protected.

Ltd. CEO Tong Ning told One View Business, the technical threshold of the digital person is not "as high as imagined". "The digital human modeling and some computer language in some of the so-called technical website is already open, many people take over and then processed assembly can be taken to trafficking, assembly of less content may buy cheaper."

Because of this, many small and medium-sized businesses with low budgets will choose to buy some low-priced "shoddy" digital people, get their hands on copywriting and digital people after the video material is not able to effectively combine the live effect is very poor, can only give up this investment.

In fact, even if the enterprise for the attitude of the digital people mixed, the head of the platforms have already shown the attitude.

## Jitterbug exclusion, fast hand embrace?

In May of this year, Shake Voice released the "Shake Voice on Artificial Intelligence Generated Content Platform Specification and Industry Initiative (hereinafter referred to as the Initiative)", which fired the first shot of the head platform to regulate digital people.

In the Initiative, ShakeYin mentioned that the platform allows the appropriate use of avatar technology, but must follow the norms. The use of avatars for live broadcasts, or the creation of accounts with avatars as personas, must be registered on the platform for the corresponding avatar image. Real users behind avatars must register and authenticate with their real names. When using a registered avatar image for live streaming, real-time interaction must be driven by a real person, and interaction driven entirely by artificial intelligence is not allowed.

In other words, at the level of the aforementioned digital human drive method, Shake Voice only supports the drive of "people in the middle" and prohibits pure AI technology drive.

An industry source told OneView Business, this is because in May or so, jittery voice daily open digital people live room as many as 40,000 or so, which has a serious impact on the flow of real live and jittery voice content ecology of the overall quality, jittery voice had to regulate it.

And the same as the short video platform of the fast hand, has gone another way. At the Shutterfly Photosynthesis Conference in August this year, Wang Zhongyuan, head of Shutterfly's AI&User Growth business, introduced Shutterfly's AIGC digital person solution - Shutterfly Smartcast. In other words, fast hand chose to take the lead in the game, and made its own digital person service provider.

Clicking on the two short video platforms can also visualize the platform's attitude towards digital people. In Jitterbug, you can rarely see the 2D digital people's oral carry live room, and only some 3D digital people who are trying to IP or have been successfully IP still have their own accounts. In Shutterstock, you can still see a lot of 2D digital people are carrying goods, and even appeared a lot of digital people in the live room recruitment of new business.

The two major Internet companies are "neutral" attitude. Taobao live has been on the line 46000/year official digital person, the third-party service providers of digital people according to its live content will still be limited. Tencent video number of the relevant person in charge said, as long as the content does not violate the law, the current platform for the number of people do not encourage, nor restriction.

On the other hand, for MCN organizations that are good at incubating real-life anchors, they have different opinions about digital people. In the view of Cui Dongsheng, general manager of the Taobao business unit of Make a Friend, digital people are currently the largest operating scenarios more in the field of smart furniture, cell phones, cars and so on. For live banding, the current trust and recognition of real-life anchors may be more important for consumers.

The same MCN organization, Modest Search's perspective on digital people follows another logic. The live broadcast is not replaced by digital people, but the emergence of digital people reduces the threshold for small and medium-sized businesses to enter the live room, giving more businesses the possibility of online transactions. So, humble search also choose to join the digital people track, its subsidiary humble language intelligence in August this year launched the AI digital people live business.

In addition to fast, humble search, many Internet manufacturers have scrambled to enter the game. Aliyun Dharma Institute Machine Intelligence Laboratory for merchants in Taobao live room to provide virtual anchor technology; Tencent launched the "wisdom shadow digital person"; Baidu digital person "Xigaga" has been in the endorsement of McDonald's; the concept of the digital person or has been over the initial period of development, a Digital person service provider practitioners revealed that the first half of the week can sell more than a dozen sets of digital people, to August, this number is only four or five sets. Regardless of which industry, when the "quantity" to a certain stage, to kill in the track, the fight is naturally "quality". The first batch of "leek" cut, more businessmen in the wait-and-see period will be more rational attitude towards digital people. Digital people's business in the end whether it can continue, but also need time to prove.
