---
title: Europe's Chip Act officially came into force
date: 2023-09-22 02:31:00
categories:
  - Financial Report
tags:
  - Chip Act officially
  - European Union institutions
description: On 21st local time, the European Chip Act came into force
cover: https://s2.loli.net/2023/09/22/KZ9xrl1fNTqg45S.png
---

## On 21st local time, the European Chip Act came into force. 

The announcement issued by the European Commission on the same day said that the programme promotes the industrialisation of key technologies through the "European Chip Plan", which encourages public and private enterprises to invest in the manufacturing facilities of chipmakers and their suppliers.

Within the framework of the bill, the EU plans to set up a coordination mechanism between member states and the commission to strengthen co-operation between member states, monitor chip supply, anticipate demand and activate an emergency response mechanism when necessary.

Europe's share of the global semiconductor production market is less than 10 per cent and it relies heavily on third-country suppliers, the announcement said. If there is a serious disruption in the global supply chain, the European industrial sector could be exhausted in a short period of time, leading to stagnation of the European industry.

According to the Chip Act, by 2030 the EU will pool 11.15 billion euros of public investment from EU institutions and member states, and will leverage significant private investment. In July this year, the European Parliament adopted the Chip Bill. The bill requires that by 2030 the EU's share of global chip production should be increased from the current 10 per cent to 20 per cent to meet its own and world market demand.

- An announcement issued by the European Commission on the same day said that the programme promotes the industrialisation of key technologies through the "Chip Europe Programme", which encourages public and private companies to invest in the manufacturing facilities of chipmakers and their suppliers.

- Within the framework of the bill, the EU plans to set up a coordination mechanism between member states and the Commission to strengthen co-operation between member states, monitor chip supply, anticipate demand and activate an emergency response mechanism when necessary.

U.S. think tank Center for Strategic International Studies also analysis, in the complex and highly dependent global value chain, the United States and China's semiconductor companies have long been deeply integrated, to make the supply chain completely localised, will pay huge economic and technological costs. Therefore, the global semiconductor industry is completely "decoupled" is very impractical.

According to the Boston Consulting Group and other institutions estimate that, if Washington adopts the China "technology hard decoupling" policy, may damage the interests of some U.S. semiconductor companies, which may make them lose 18% of the global market share and 37% of the revenue, and reduce 15,000 to 40,000 high-skilled jobs. In other words, the subsidies provided by the "Chip Act" are likely to be unable to cover the costs of semiconductor companies moving their factories from China to the United States.

## How Much of an Impact? U.S. Difficulty in Achieving Its Purpose of Reclaiming Industrial Dominance

Although the "chip bill" will play a role, but whether it can really change the global semiconductor landscape remains to be seen. He believes that the "chip bill" has a number of limitations, such as underestimating the chip industry transfer, the difficulty of re-engineering.

A study pointed out that the United States to establish a fully self-sufficient local semiconductor supply chain requires at least 1 trillion U.S. dollars in upfront investment, and the "Chip Act" directly into the semiconductor manufacturing sector of more than 50 billion U.S. dollars of the budget of the industry as a whole can be considered a drop in the bucket. Former TSMC spokesman Sun Yu-wen recently participated in an online seminar, said, "for the construction of production capacity to spend the money is really not that meaningful. 52 billion dollars is really not a lot of money, you only need to look at TSMC in a year to spend the capital expenditure, so what is the use of 52 billion dollars?"

Including U.S. academics, including people from all walks of life also expressed doubts about the "chip bill" can really play a role. Indiana University associate professor Dan Zeman recently wrote in the Washington Post, "chip bill" is "expensive fool" or effective catalyst for innovation, depending on the project management, but it is unlikely to prevent U.S. companies to continue to China production in China.

